So my name is Ryan Slashinsky.
I'm a teacher here at Marshview
Middle School in Sackville, New Brunswick.
And I have been here for the past
eight years.
I've been teaching mostly music, but,
a smattering of other subjects as well.
I've taught everything.
I have a grade six homeroom, right
now, currently.
And I'm Matthew Flanagan.
I'm a new teacher here at Marshview
Middle School.
I teach social studies and science,
and, yeah,
I had the pleasure of working alongside
Ryan and getting this off the ground.
And for me at least,
and seeing the results has been fantastic.
So the project that we're talking about
today is, the,
student vote, which is run
by an organization called civics.
It's a Canadian organization
that has been doing this for, many years.
Every time there's an election,
provincial, federal, municipal,
they come in,
and they give us all the materials
that is needed to run a parallel election
with our students.
At the same time
as the real life election is happening.
So we get to hear what the students
have to say about the issues
facing the country today.
So in this school where it's stuff
like for me, what I've noticed
is that students at this age tend
to have a very strong sense of justice.
They see things in the world,
and they want to be agents for change.
They want to be able to make the world
a better place.
But they tend to think very globally
or even internationally.
And what student votes allowed them to do
is center that on the community
and realize that the community
that they're part of,
whether it's Sackville,
whether it's the Monkton community,
the Amherst community, whatever community
you're part of.
There are people here
that are engaging in these issues
who are trying to make the world
a better place.
And I think
that's very empowering for them,
because they can realize
that they can be agents for change
here in the local community
without having to reach beyond
into this big,
very murky international world
that they may not be ready
to engage with yet.
Yeah.
One of the things I love most
about middle
school is how hungry the students are to,
try to figure out who
they are and what they're places
in the community in the world.
And, programs like this,
allow them to engage in, in real life.
And that's what they want.
They want to do real life things.
They want to be a part of the real world
out there.
Right?
And so we can bring that to them
in the school,
through programs like this, we've had
we've put them in touch with their
local candidates running in the elections,
through projects like this.
They get to ask questions,
they get to think about the issues.
They get to formulate their own opinions
and then we ask them
to think more critically
and more deeply about them.
So they're moving from,
you know, the simple slogans, to,
actually, you know, you know,
some thoughtful, debate and dialog
with each other and with their teachers
and with their community.
And we get a chance, I think, to explore
the metacognition side of the curriculum,
where they're able now to think about
not only what I believe to be true
or what I believe to be right, or wrong,
and why I believe that.
And I think there's a good transfer
of skill opportunity there to learn.
Not only is it
practical in the political sense, it's
practical in an employment sense
and a personal development sense
where you're making choices
and you're now able to stop and say,
why are these choices?
Why this perspective, why this bias?
And we have an opportunity to dig in
and really get them to explore
how they came to be, who they are today,
and what choices they can make to be
who they want to become in the future.
And there's a sort of deliberate side
to this curriculum,
I think, to this, this activity
that really challenges them
to think about who they are
and why they are who they are.
Also, importantly, it's fun.
Yeah. Yeah.
The key features
of, working with middle schoolers
is that it's always got to be fun.
And they truly enjoy.
Most of them will enjoy working
on, these, these projects,
or even volunteering to be part
of the actual procedures themselves.
Right.
There's always a list,
a long list of people
who are willing to take some time
out of the day
to, make sure that the procedures
are being followed, right.
To make sure that, yeah,
it starts with them saying, yeah,
we're going to get out of class. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. And then, oh,
this is a lot of work.
And then, oh,
this is really interesting actually.
And then seeing the
why it's done that way as well.
Right.
That these are not just rituals
that we go through.
Right.
It is not just you show up
and you stand in line and it's there's
there's real reasons
why we do these procedures.
There's real reasons
why we have the, the steps that we take.
And then they can see that
as they're doing it.
And oh, okay,
these are in place for a reason.
Elections work like this for a reason.
And they can go on
and see that I think in a better way. And.
It requires a lot of collaboration.
There's a lot going on behind the scenes
before the kids
actually even start engaging with it. Yet.
So yeah, having,
having good collegial, sports
like, we can get Matt
and I are side by side in that room.
So finding those five seconds
in between classes to figure out
what we're doing, is really crucial
to make things happen. Yes.
And I think the other side of that, too,
is something
we've been kind of talking about
is that they
they come to us with their opinions
and their beliefs
and their perspectives on the world.
And it's not for us to try
to impose a more sophisticated
or more adult or a more developed
give them the space
to articulate what those opinions are,
what those beliefs are.
And and they're not silly
and they're not trivial.
They're what they come equipped with
and with a lot of the projects
and a lot of the steps in these projects,
we can then take those and help them
develop those perspectives
with a little bit more solid grounding,
so that they can feel a bit
more confident, discard
the ones that they maybe
don't believe anymore
because they've had the opportunity
to challenge themselves
and then get a little bit
more sophisticated as we go through
so that there's a more intention
and deliberation and what they believe.
But it's always important to remember that
they don't come here with a blank tabula
rasa.
There's no blank slate.
They come into your class with beliefs,
and they're not trivial to them,
even if they sound maybe silly
to the adult world.
Right?
And we have a chance to cultivate them
and help them grow that themselves.
And there's a lot of steps,
I think, in that process, in these,
projects that they work
on, it kind of really they look silly
sometimes
when you're doing them in the moment,
but then you realize that, no,
this is planting a firmer soil
or a richer soil for them
to grow those opinions with, I think.
Yeah.